In the beginning. It was an empty folder.

We just pnpm init the repo.
On this moment a simple package.json file appears. 

This text file was writed with some weirds inscriptions.
First thing i saw is all the text i could see was encapsulated.
Embrassed by 2 curly brackets.

What this mean ? I don't know.
But for the moment let's accept it.
Let's face what i understand.

It looks like the words are embrassed by " ", i don't get it but it is was it
is.
Let's go in.

There is a word named "name" then a ':' and after that there is a
"my-simple-react-app" the line ends by a comma,

Well my folder where i init the repo is named "my-simple-react-app"
This must be the name of my project.

Then i see a version with the same ':' and then "1.0.0" This must be the
version of my app.

Well you may have understood now, the the words are connected between them
with a :, the "name" is my-simple-react-app
the "version" is "1.0.0"

And so go on

A description that is empty.
There is a main named index.js
"scripts" with a gain curly brackets.I still don't know why. But let's move
on.

keywords entry goes with a [] that's new.

author empy
and liscense ISC.

Let's see if we have a gile index.js




We send do another command:

"pnpm add react react-dom"
---
Other things happens we now have a key dependencies on our "package.json"
Theses dependencies are again on curly brackets
but this time there is 2 values that are react and react-dom

theses must be the dependencies we installed. ad the curly brackets mut be to
assign to the key "dependencies" multiples parties "react" and "react-dom"

Also now on the project we have a new folder.
It's named "node_nmodules"

Inside there is other folders. react and react-dom.

Theses folder are organised like mine.
with a package.json.

The package.json of react points to the github of facebook.

--- 

Let's move on.

The explanation tells me i should install some minimal setup before moving on.

I should install webpack webpack-cli webpack-dev-server @babel/core @
babel/present-env @babel-preset-react babel-loader html-webpack-plugin

pnpm add -D 

however i don't know theses packages, i don't know why they are used for.
Let's move on.

--
Babel libraries are suppose to transpile modern JavaScript and JSX. I don't
understand what this means.
i should create a ./babelrc
with 

{
	"presets": ["@babel/preset-env", "@babel/preset-react"]
}

I don't know what this is. Let's move on.

Let's move on 

--- 
I shouls also configure webpack:

it gives a config also.
For the moment i don't know what this is for.
I should create a webpack.config.js


--- Let's move on

Well then i should create a basic react component on the file.
src/index.js 

i remember this file was my main on the package.json also i saw this file on
the node_module folder of react. Do you remember the folder that appear when
we installed react.

Inside this folder there is a README that display a file that looks like the
one we should put on index.js


---
Then it tells me i should create a public folder with 
a public/index.html

The reason we need to create the public/index.html.

Is because this file is our app.
We are building a single page application. The single page application comes
from fact we are only serving this index.html page.
Then we will modify this div named id=root using react.

This is how our application will run with the "DOM"

---

Then we need to create on the src folder the index.js file
This is wheere we are going to interact with the app.
As we are aiming into using best practices we are using the createRoot 

This comes from the new api integrated in React 18

---

Looks like for run our app we will be forced to use Babel and Webpacks or
equivalents.
For this purpose we will see what they do.

First Babel:
Babel is used to Transpilling Modern JavaScript:
Babel converts modern JavaScript (ES6/ES2015+ and beyond) into code that can
run in older browsers or environments that don't support the latest language
features.
For example features like arrow functions, classes, async/await, and more are
transformed into older syntax.

JSX Transformation:
When using libraries like React, you write components in JSX.
JSX is a syntax that looks like HTML within JavaScript. Babel transform JSX
into standard javascript calls (using React.createElement or similar) that
browsers can execute.

Pollyfilling New Apis:
While Babel itself is focused on syntax tranformations, it is often used
alongside polyfill libraries like (core-js) to provide implementations of new 
JavaScript features (like Promises or Array.prototype.includes) in
environments that do not support them natively.

For resume Babels solves some core problems:
- Browser Compatibility:
As Javascript evolves, not all browsers update at the same pace.
Babel ensures that you can write code using the latest features without
breaking compatibility with older browsers.

- Developer Productivity:
By allowing developers to use moders syntax and features (which are often more
concise and easier to reason about), Babel improves developer productivity.
The transformation happens behind the scenes, so you can focus on writing
modern code.

- Framework Ecosystem
Frameworks like React benefit greatly from Babel because it lets developers
use JSX, which makes component definitions more intuitive.

There is differents competitors to BABEL:
- SWC Rust-Based compiler aims to be faster.
it looks like babel is letting place to swc
"https://blog.logrocket.com/why-you-should-use-swc/" 

We will focus on using SWC as it is used on next.js 


What's Webpack

Module bundling:
Webpack takes your application's various modules. (js, files, css, images,
etc..) And bundles them together into one or more output files. This is
specially important for web applications where browsers need to load a limited
number of files for performance reasons.

Dependency management:
Webpack builds a dependency graph from your entry point(s) and includes every
module your application depends on. This ensures that all necessary code is
available  in the final bundle.

Asset Management:
Webpack, isn't limited to js, it can process and bundle stylesheets (CSS,
SASS, images, fonts, and even HTML files, using loaders to transform these
resources as needed.

Optimizations:
Features like code splitting (dividing code into chunks that can be loaded on
demand), tree shaking (removing unused code), and minification (reducing file
sizes) help optimize the final output for performance.

Development Server:
Webpack Dev Server provides a local server with hot module replacement (HMR)
so that changes to your code automatically update in the browser without a
full reload.


The problem WebPack solves:

Performance: 
By bundling your code, Webpack reduces the number of HTTP requests and can
optimize the size of the assets delivered to the client, which is crucial for
performance, especially on mobile devices.

Modularity:
Modern Javascript development embraces modularity modularity. Webpack enables
you to write modular code and then compiles it into a format that works
efficiently in the browser.


Complex Assets:
Modern Javascript include various types of assets. Webpack privides a unified
way to process these assets with loaders and plugins, streamlining the build
process.


----

So we configure .swcrc
We tell him to parse javascript with jsx enabled

We set the react transform to use the automatic runtime. Recommended for react
17+
------


You miss a part of the journey. Yesterday we installed the React APP into a docker container.
For this we created a dockerfile.dev we choose alpine for his lighweight and node official container for the utilities installed in.

Then we create a docker-compose file where we match the ports between the container and ou machine.
Also we declarea volume so the changes on our folder is sync with the /app folder in the container. 
However we face some challenges with the node_nmodules folder as is create some errors. 
In order to prevent them we create an anonimous folder for it and we add it to the .dockerignore file.
In that purpose that the container build the node_modules.

->

Now we relook on how we made the react app. As we could see on the App.jsx page we directly put the router.
This create an issue if we want to put a login page on first on our app.
To prevent this we are creating a layouts folder with a route folder in order to organize the app.

----

Let's focus on the login page:

For this first simple step we are going to use localStorage:
Key features of localStorage are :
- Stores key-value pairs (like dictionary)
- Data remains after page reloads or closing the browser
- Can only store strings (others types must be converted to jsons)
- limited to 5mb of storage per domain.

So first whe nwe login we put a localStorage.setItem("isAuthenticated", "true")
then we access it using localStorage.getItem("isAuthenticated")
Then we can remove it using localStorage.removeItem("isAuthenticated")

So as we can notice here we use 3 different functions in orter to set, get and remove
As we also can appreciate this is a simple true false value.
This is not acceptable for a realworld usage, so on our case later we should use something like a token.

Let's create a todo list to start takings notes on what we will add.

---

We also change the AppRoutes.jsx
Routes module help us define multiples routes for the app
Route define an individual page inside Routes
Navigage Redirects the user

First we check if the user is isAuthenticated from the value of the localStorage
and we variabilise it.
If it is false the user is send to the login page.
If they try to access ani other page they would be redirected to the login page aniway.

If the user is authenticated now:
They will et access to the HomePage (/) inside the MainLayout
We also see the About page inside the MainLayout
Also if the  user try to login he gets redirected to the HomePage

We also used a ternary operator as:
{Condition ? ( <if Something />) : <else Something />)};

As we are ending this we notice we don't have a 404 pages we could correct this.
So we add a NotFound page that redirect on it on ani not found route.

We can now login and logout from our app.

----

so now we have some basics pages, we should take osme time to style them.
This will allow us to install tailwind and also to being more proud of our work.
We need to look for beauty in order to keep comitted.

When we want to install tailwind.
We where notified about 2 other packages that are
postcss A CSS preprocessor that allows tailwind to work efficiently
autoprefixer that adds missing vendors prefixes to ensure styles work across browsers

However this is the old version of tailwind.
We are now using tailwind CSS 4.0 and this changes the ways of working with it and vite.

So we only add 2 dependencies that are tailwindcss and @tailwindcss/vite
pnpm add -D tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite

We use the plugin of tailwindcss/vite on our vite.config.js in order to properly add tailwind to our project
And we put tailwind on out global.css file
Obiusly we import the global.css file into out App.jsx file

We then use the @theme flag to define some colors that match our photo.
